add more docs for response helpers (#958)
solidjs/solid-docs: src/routes/solid-router/reference/response-helpers/redirect.mdx

---
title: redirect
---

Redirects to the next route.

> When done over a server RPC call, the redirect will be done through the server.

Reviewer: could you specify what an RPC call is before abbreviating?

Author: thank you for this, I actually caught a redundancy with the acronym 

```suggestion
When done over a server RPC (Remote Procedure Call), the redirect will be done through the server.
```

By default the status code of a `redirect()` is `302 - FOUND`, also known as a temporary redirect.

Other useful redirect codes:

| Code | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| `301` | Moved Permanently |
| `307` | Temporary Redirect |
| `308` | Permanent redirect |

<Callout type="tip" name="Redirect Methods">
307 and 308 won't allow the browser to change the method of the request. If you want to change the method, you should use 301 or 302.
</Callout>

> A common use-case for a throwing a redirect is when a user is not authenticated and you want to redirect them to the login page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common use-case for throwing a redirect is when a user is not authenticated and needs to be sent to the login page or another public route.
```

```js title="/queries/get-user.ts" {7}
import { query, redirect } from "@solidjs/router";
import { getCurrentUser } from "../auth";

const getUser = query(() => {
  const user = await getCurrentUser();
  
  if (!user) throw redirect("/login");
  
  return user;
}, "get-user")
```

## Single-Flight Mutations

When using `redirect` during a Server Action, the redirect will be done through the server.

> And the response value will automatically send the data for the destination route, avoiding a subsequent roundtrip to load the data from the target route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response value will automatically send data for the destination route, avoiding a subsequent roundtrip to load the data from the target route.
```

> This is useful when you want to redirect the user to a different route after a mutation has been done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful when redirecting the user to a different route once a mutation is done.
```

```ts title="/actions/add-user.ts" {3,6}
import { action, redirect } from "@solidjs/router";

const addUser = action(async (user: User) => {
  await postUser(user);
  
  return redirect("/users");
});
```

> The `addUser` action will redirect the user to the `/users` route after the user has been added to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `addUser` action will redirect the user to the `/users` route once the user has been added to the database.
```

> And the response from the form action will automatically send the updated data for the `/users` route without the developer needing to revalidate or reload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response from the form action will send the updated data for the `/users` route without the developer needing to revalidate or reload.
```

## Throw vs Return

Both `throw` and `return` can be used to redirect the user to a different route.

> Generally, `throw` is used when you want to immediately stop the execution of the current action and redirect the user, making it the most recommended way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For general usage `throw` is recommended as it immediately stops the execution of the current action and redirects the user.
```
